.TH SLEY 1 "2026-07-21" "sley" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sley \- repository workflow checks for humans, editors, hooks, and agents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sley
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ args ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sley
owns repository workflow orchestration: selecting the active changed-file
scope, formatting through hook APIs, running fast checks, scanning secrets, and
aggregating readiness before submit. It delegates low-level formatter, linter,
diagnostic, and generic analyzer policy to Checkrun when Checkrun is available.
.PP
The default scope follows the active VCS change context rather than the current
working directory. Use
.BR --path ,
.BR --repo-wide ,
and
.B --include-untracked
on commands that accept scope options when a different scope is needed.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B status
Print repository type, root, ref, and dirty-file counts.
.TP
.B changes
List selected changed files.
.TP
.B fix
Run the mutating format phase for selected files.
.TP
.B check
Run the read-only fast lint and validation phase for selected files.
.TP
.B secrets
Run the configured redacted secret scan.
.TP
.B verify
Discover and run broader local verification commands from manifests, verify
registries, Sley extensions, and the built-in Checkrun verify bridge.
.TP
.B ready
Run the aggregate pre-submit readiness report. With
.B --fix
and
.BR --commit ,
this is the commit-gate path used by native hooks.
.TP
.B hook
Run narrow editor and agent hook entry points such as formatting or linting one
file.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SLEY_SKIP_UNTRACKED
Set to
.B 1
to skip untracked-file discovery in large repositories.
.TP
.B SLEY_BARE_REPO_GIT_DIR
Optional bare Git repository fallback for PATH-visible integrations.
.TP
.B SLEY_BARE_REPO_WORK_TREE
Work tree paired with
.BR SLEY_BARE_REPO_GIT_DIR .
Defaults to
.BR $HOME .
.TP
.B SLEY_SKIP_BARE_REPO_FALLBACK
Set to
.B 1
when a probe should ignore the optional bare-repo fallback.
.TP
.B SLEY_EXTENSION_DIR
Directory containing environment-specific extension files. Defaults to the
user's XDG config location.
.TP
.B SLEY_VERIFY_CONFIG
Explicit verify registry file or directory, discovered before user registries
from the default config directory.
.TP
.B SLEY_VERIFY_CACHE_DIR
Explicit directory for local verify success receipts.
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Absolute base directory for Sley extensions and user verify registries. An
empty or relative value falls back to
.BR $HOME/.config .
.TP
.B XDG_CACHE_HOME
Absolute base directory for verify success receipts. An empty or relative
value falls back to
.BR $HOME/.cache .
.PP
If an XDG fallback is required and
.B HOME
is unavailable, Sley reports an error rather than resolving a relative path.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I share/sley/schemas/verify.schema.json
JSON Schema for Sley verify registry files.
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/sley/extensions.d/*.sh
Ordered extension files for local hook and verify policy.
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/sley/verify.json
Primary user verify registry.
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/sley/verify.d/*.json
Additional user verify registries.
.TP
.I $XDG_CACHE_HOME/sley/verify/
Local verify success receipts.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The requested workflow phase succeeded.
.TP
.B 1
A selected check, secret scan, or verification command failed.
.TP
.B 2
Usage error or invalid local configuration.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR checkrun (1),
.BR autoformat (1),
.BR autolint (1)
